# Structure Of Webpages

Webpage design is very simple but complicated at the same time, a webpage consists of 3 main parts. the title, the head, and the body. The main coding method used in webdesign is html and in html you use tags like <p> to create things like the title, the head, and the body. When ending a tag you must use a / before the characterm, their are a few exceptions but normally you have to end tags.You can make webpages on alot of things like notepad which is pretty simple to use.

You can also see other peoples coding in html, using the veiw code option online you can actually see the code that other peoples code or even your own code. At first it looks complicated but when you boil it down all it is simple tags that make things show up.

## Code sectioons

*Headers and Footers* are part of the top and bottom of the html page, and it determines what shows up at the bottom and top of your webpage. Normally the header is used for the title page and the footer is normally used to hold information and their tags are <header> & <footer>. THe *article tag*, shown as <article> which is used to contain sections of the page that could be stand alone. *Asides*( <asides>) can be used for two things, when used inside of a article it should contain information that is related to the article, when used outside of an article it should act as a container for information that relates to the entire webpage. *Sections* (<section>) groups related content together and it normally has its own heading. *Heading groups* (<h1>, <h2>, <h3>, etc.) are used to section off information and can contain their individual titles and articles. *figures* (<figure> & <figurecaptio>) and *div* (<div>) isnt a widely used much but when it is used its used to section out things. Html is also all about arangement and how you stack/ layer things.

### The smaller things of Html

Their are many different types of html thats exsisted over the years that have been used and those different types are called doc types which are different ways/style of html. Comments are another neat thing that you can do they are done as <!-- --> and they can be used to make notes on things so they don't show up on the actual webpage, Id attributes are used with java script normally to make variables. group text & inline, grouping text & elements in a block, group text, and inline elements all have to do with how elements are placed around a webpage. Iframes (<iframe>) are like a tiny window thats cut into your webpage and in that little window you can have any information a commonly used thing with iframes is google maps and it includes the ability to control the frame size, height and weight of the page, and scrolling to control the page. and *meta data* (<meta>) is used to contain the information about the meta data like the owner of the page, what the search engines see, and things like name, name attributes and other specific property values and since its an empty character you dont need a closing tag to end it.